Editing branch PR for new api-led core journey (#61)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/api-led-test.adoc

= Build an API Tutorial: Validation, Error Handling, and Unit Tests for the API
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

So far, we've created an API interface and implementation and tested the HTTP request with a third-party client.

> Now, we'll use Studio to add error handling and a unit test. In Studio, we'll use the scaffolding already created to:

Reviewer: Neither of the commas after these intro adverbials is necessary, but they are not wrong. 
I stumbled briefly over the second one.

Author: deleted.

* Validate input using the Validation module
* Handle one type of error.

> * Create a unit test on the payload value. 

Reviewer: Remove periods

Reviewer: Yay intro that matches subtopics!
Not that I'd expect less from you! But this is done so rarely in what I review that I get a little excited....  lol

Author: We should chat about this.  I'm of two minds about these bullet lists that are replicated in the right nav.
Not all contexts require them. Not sure when we should use them.

== Validation

> Add an operation from the Validation module to the API implementation to ensure user input is appropriate for the API.

Reviewer: ensure that
```suggestion
Add an operation from the Validation module to the API implementation to ensure that user input is appropriate for the API.
```

Author: done

> In our case, the APi is very simple. We'll test that the size of the payload is within an acceptable range.

Reviewer: API
```suggestion
In our example case, the API is very simple. We'll test that the size of the payload is within an acceptable range.
```

Author: doen.

> Even though the payload is currently written directly into the project, in a real-world API the payload value 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though our payload is written directly into the project, in a real-world API the payload value 
```
"real-world" > "actual"? "production"? "working"?

Author: No, "real-world" means real world. Not example.

> would come from another source.

Reviewer: I know that as a tutorial this text is full of conditionals, so we can be a little more free with a variety of verb tenses, but I would still consider using "comes from" instead of "would come from," just to keep things simple.

Author: the sentence sounds weird without conditional. Because the coming is conditional.

To add the *Validate size* operation to our project:

. In the `Hello-World` project in Studio, open `implementation.xml`.

> . In the Mule Palette, select *Add Modules > Validation* and drag it to the drag-n-drop area. 

Reviewer: See prev comments about naming the Mule palette. Standardize to one presentation GLOBALLY.

Reviewer: What is the "drag-n-drop" area?
Suggest "...and drag it to <a specific location, like the canvas, a section, a pane, or a window>.
In no case would I use "drag-n-drop," unless it were an actual UI label, heaven help us....

Author: changed to drag and drop as that's what's written in the area.

> . From the list of operations displayed, drag *Validate size* to the canvas and drop to the right of *Set Payload*, inside *implementationFlow*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the list of operations displayed, drag *Validate size* to the canvas and drop it to the right of *Set Payload*, inside *implementationFlow*.
```

Author: done

. Double-click *Validate size* and then set these values in the *General* tab:

>   .. *Value:*: Click the *fx* button to change from literal mode to expression mode, and then enter `payload` after *\#\[*. Don't enter a closing bracket.

Reviewer: Remove the double colons after Value and Min. Move them outside of the bold (*) if they are not part of the UI label.

*`payload`*
Add bold to indicate user action.

I also suggest GLOBALLY using "type" for user entry that is not immediately committed by a return or other confirmation action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. *Value*: Click the *fx* button to change from literal mode to expression mode, and then type *`payload`* after *\#\[*. 
  Don't enter a closing bracket.
```

Reviewer: Also, can we request that our transform use lowercase letters rather than lowercase Roman numerals for substeps?

Author: Yes, I'll file that request today. Deleted enter and fixed colons.

>   .. *Min:*: Enter `6`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. *Min*: Enter *`6`*.
```

>   .. *Max:* Enter `30`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. *Max*: Enter *`30`*.
```

>   .. *Error options > Message:* `The specified message is either too small or too large. Edit message to be 6-29 characters.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. *Error options > Message*: `The specified message is either too small or too large. Edit message to be 6-29 characters.`
```
There is no verb here. Is the user supposed to type this message, or is this a default that appears? If the latter, it should not be in an ordered list of user actions.

> . Save your changes, and then right-click in the canvas and choose *Run project hello-world*.

Reviewer: Is it obvious how to save changes? What does the user click or do?

Reviewer: Consider limiting steps to one user action GLOBALLY.

Reviewer: "choose" > "select"

Reviewer: ditto prev comments about standardizing the presentation of "project hello-world": capitalization and hyphenation inconsistent throughout

Author: done.

> . After you see the console message indicating `hello-world` has deployed, send a request using AdvancedRestClient or similar:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After you see the console message indicating that Hello World has deployed, send a request using AdvancedRestClient or similar:
```
How is "AdvancedRestClient" being used here? It is not in the following syntax, so I can only guess that we really mean "Advanced REST Client" or "advancedrestclient.exe." Clarify.

Author: I thought it was the name (that's what shows up in the hover over), but it's also rendered properly so I'll change.

+
`http://localhost:8081/greeting`

> . Your request client should report response headers containing `200 OK` and `Today the greeting is Hello.`

Reviewer: This is not a step and should be formatted as plain text following the user input, as its result.

Author: done

> . Right-click the canvas and choose *Stop project hello-world*.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY change "choose" to "select." I will stop marking this, so please search.

ditto global comments re. representation of Hello World.

> To test that the validation works when the payload is too large, use the debugger to step through each event before the validation failure triggers the error handlers 

Reviewer: We are testing that the Validation module behaves as it is supposed to by failing. Reword to clarify.
```suggestion
To test that validation fails when the payload is too large, use the debugger to step through each event before the validation failure triggers the error handlers:
```

Reviewer: I'm going to stop marking instances of Hello World.
Please search for GLOBALLY and standardize to one presentation for the name of the project and, hopefully, one for the presentation as represented in the UI.

Author: If the validation failed, it wouldn't catch the error.

Author: changed to "before the error is triggered" (will live with passive construction).

> . In the `Hello-World` project in Studio, open `implementation.xml`.

Reviewer: Open by clicking?
If this is a UI label, it should be in bold and not syntax presentation.

Author: this is an action they've performed multiple times, so I'm mimicking the training approach of using simple language and not explaining every click in the UI.

> . Click *Set Payload*, and then change the value to `Hi.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Set Payload*, and then change the value to `Hi`.
```

Author: done

. Right-click *Set Payload* and choose *Toggle breakpoint*.

> . Righ-click *Validate size* and choose *Toggle breakpoint*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Right-click *Validate size* and choose *Toggle breakpoint*.
```

Author: done

> . Right-click the canvas and choose *Debug project hello-world*. If you are asked to open the Mule Debug perspect, select the *Remember my decision* checkbox and click *Yes*.

Reviewer: What is the Mule Debug "perspect"? Please verify or fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Right-click in the canvas and choose *Debug project hello-world*. 
If you are asked to open the Mule Debug perspect, select the *Remember my decision* checkbox and click *Yes*.
```

> . After the applciation deploys, open AdvancedRestClient or similar and send a request to the `/greeting` endpoint:

Reviewer: ditto prev question about AdvancedRestClient

Author: globally fixed.

+ 
`http://localhost:8081/greeting`

> . Return to Studio and look at the *Mule Debugger* pane above the canvas.

Reviewer: Hmm...I guess returning to Studio is a step, but why "look at the...pane..."? To what purpose?
Could this step be "Return to Studio and, in the *Mule Debugger* pane above the canvas, click *Set Payload*?
This step and the following step are a little confusing, at least to me. I'd like to see a screen capture and steps that involve fewer actions per.
Please take another look here, and maybe we can discuss?
Also, this task is pretty long. Is there anything we can do about that?

Author: I deleted it--not sure why I wrote that, but it's not needed.

> . In the canvas, Click *Set Payload* to open the *Set Payload* node in the debugger and see the payload value is `Hi.`, three characters.

Reviewer: Beginning here with "In the canvas" does not follow the previous step instruction to look ABOVE the canvas, without explaining why. Where is the transition.
Consider separating the step of noticing or verifying that the payload value is three characters: `Hi.`

. Click the Resume icon (green arrow above the debugger window).

> . The debugger pane now shows the Validate size operation. Open the node to see the setting you created in the previous step.

Reviewer: This first sentence is not a step. 
It should either follow the previous step, in plain text, as that step result, or this step should be reworded something like "In the <debugger pane? other location?>, open the node [what node? Did Set Payload close?] to verify the setting you created [how did the user create a setting in what previous step? The previous step is Resume; the one before that is viewing the three characters, not setting them].

Reviewer: I am having trouble envisioning this without screen captures; will your audience feel the same?

Author: screen captures are coming.

. Click the Resume icon again, and notice that that an error has been thrown.

> . Click Resume again, and look at AdvancedRestClient or the tool you used to issue the request. You should see `500 Server Error` and the message indicating the payload size is wrong.

Reviewer: Have I understood this properly: the user clicks the icon and sees that an error is thrown, but has to click the icon once more and look at a tool to see the actual error?
Again, I think that this is difficult to envision without screen caps, especially for a tutorial.
```suggestion
. Click the Resume icon once more and, in the Advanced REST Client or similar tool used to issue the request, verify that `500 Server Error` and a message indicating that the payload size is wrong are displayed.
```

Author: you're going back and forth, it is complicated. screenshots coming.

. Right-click on the canvas and select *Stop project hello-world*.
. Select *Window > Perspective > Open Perspective > Mule Design* to exit the debugger view.
. You can remove the breakpoint toggles.

> . In *Set Payload*, reset the payload to `Today the greeting is Hello.`

Reviewer: Why? The task was debugging, and the previous step discovers the precise error and message. 
Do we intend something like "After you verify that validation behaves as it is supposed to,..."?
Is this just cleanup? 
What are the breakpoint toggles (not mentioned to this point), and why remove them? And how?
Why reset the payload? (And when did it change to `Hi.`?)
If you stop the project, are you able to reset its payload?

Author: yes. These tasks are very familiar to anyone who has used a developer IDE.

== Error Handling

> When you imported the API specification into this Studio project, a number of error handlers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you imported your API specification into the example Hello World project in Studio, the following error handlers
```

were automatically created in `interface.xml` for `hello-world-main`:

* *APIKIT:BAD_REQUEST*
* *APIKIT:NOT_FOUND*
* *APIKIT:METHOD_NOT_ALLOWED*
* *APIKIT:NOT_ACCEPTABLE*

> * *APIKIT_UNSUPPORTED_MEDIA_TYPE*

Reviewer: Please verify:
```suggestion
* *APIKIT:UNSUPPORTED_MEDIA_TYPE*
```

* *APIKIT:NOT_IMPLEMENTED*

> Delete the last three.

Reviewer: Why?

Reviewer: Also, instead of making the reader go back up to the list and count backwards, it might be clearer to name the three to delete.

> To see how the error handling works, we'll send a request with the error condition for each handler.

Reviewer: What error condition? What handlers?
Also, I see in line 78 that this text is still being developed, so I will stop reviewing this topic here. Please resubmit when ready.

=== Error: Bad Request

To exercise the bad-request error handler, send a GET request that specifies a non-existent endpoint:

*The error handlers in interface.xml don't seem to work. Need help to complete this section.*

== Unit Testing with MUnit

Studio makes it easy to create unit tests with MUnit. 

> We'll create one unit test that verifies the payload is the hard-coded value we expect.

Reviewer: Is "hard-coded" necessary here? 
So far we have mentioned payload values in this tutorial many times, but never with this modification; need we explain?

> To create an MUnit test for the payload contents:

Reviewer: "payload contents"? Doesn't "payload" imply "contents"? We have not specified this before.

Author: could also be the functionality of the payload regardless of the contents in this context.

> . In Studio, in the `hello-world` project, navigate to `src/test/munit` in the Package Explorer. The folder is empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Studio, in the `hello-world` project, navigate to `src/test/munit` in Package Explorer. 
The folder is empty.
```
Does your audience know that this is a folder, and does it matter that it is empty?

> . Right-click on `src/test/munit` and select *New > MUnit Test*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Right-click *src/test/munit* and select *New > MUnit Test*.
```
I have to admit that I am becoming confused as to how to tag things that are common names (files, directories) AND syntax values AND UI elements. Please take a moment to review that your formatting choices are appropriate to you intended distinctions among these uses (common, value, element).

. Name the test file `hello-world-test-suite.xml`.
. Select the checkbox for `implementationFlow`.

> . Click *Finish*. `hello-world-test-suite.xml` opens in the *Message Flow* tab. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Finish*. 
`hello-world-test-suite.xml` opens in the *Message Flow* tab. 
```

> . Select the *Configuration XML* tab, and then insert this line between `<flow-ref>` and `</munit:execution>`: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Configuration XML* tab, insert the following text between `<flow-ref>` and `</munit:execution>`: +
```

Author: done

> `<munit-tools:assert-that expression="#[payload]" is="#[MunitTools::equalTo('whathever is expected')]" message="Payload is not the same"/>`

Reviewer: Please doublecheck this syntax for proper symbols and spacing.

> . Save your changes, then return to *Package Explorer*:

Reviewer: Do we need to specify how to save changes?

  .. Right-click `hello-world-test-suite.xml`.
  .. Select *MUnit > Run Tests*.

>   .. Watch the *Console* tab as messages are displayed. Studio builds a zip file, executes the tests, and reports the results.

Reviewer: I would not make this a separate step but rather text following the previous.
```suggestion
  Watch the *Console* tab as messages are displayed. Studio builds a .zip file, executes the tests, and reports the results.
```

>   .. When you see a line similar to the following, you'll know the MUnit test has completed and, since the text we supplied doesn't match the payload, the test failed as expected: +

Reviewer: Also not a step.
```suggestion
  When you see a line similar to the following, you'll know the MUnit test has completed:
 
  `ERROR 2020-01-15 10:39:19,194 [munit.01] org.mule.munit.runner.model.Suite: FAILURE - test: hello-world-test-suite-implementationFlowTest - Time elapsed: 5.03 sec`

Because the text we supplied doesn't match the payload, the test failed as expected. +
```
How does the previous syntax reflect the text supplied or the payload? Is the reader supposed to be remembering previous steps that I am not remembering (how Hello World became Hi.)

Author: done

  `ERROR 2020-01-15 10:39:19,194 [munit.01] org.mule.munit.runner.model.Suite: FAILURE - test: hello-world-test-suite-implementationFlowTest - Time elapsed: 5.03 sec`

> . To verify that the test will succeed with the correct value:

Reviewer: I wonder if we should separate the test into two parts: one that fails and one that succeeds?
When the substeps outnumber the main steps, it raises my organizational red flag....

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To verify that the test succeeds when the payload contains the correct value:
```

>   .. In `hello-world-test-suite.xml`, find `whathever is expected` and replace it with the payload value: `Today the greeting is Hello.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. In `hello-world-test-suite.xml`, find `whatever is expected` and replace it with the payload value `Today the greeting is Hello.`.
```

Author: done

>   .. Save your changes, then return to *Package Explorer*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. Save your changes and return to *Package Explorer*:
```
ditto prev question about saving changes.
GLOBALLY search for and rework "<do this>, then <do this>" so that ", then" is not used as a conjunction.

Author: doen

  .. Right-click `hello-world-test-suite.xml`.
  .. Select *MUnit > Run Tests*.

>   .. Watch the *Console* tab as before, and look for the message indicating success: +

Reviewer: ditto prev comments on this same text above
